---
title: EuroPython 2021
description: recap
feature_image: ./europython2021.png
feature_image_description: EuroPython 2021 logo
date: 2021-10-12
tags:
  - python
  - conference
---

# EuroPython 2021

Another fully-online conference amid the COVID pandemic. Despite being organized and attended virtually, this conference was huge, with the number of talks alone tipping 100. Even with the huge amount of content, there was a clear focus on Data Science as over 1/3 of the content was targeting this discipline.

## No, not typing. Types.

If you watch only one conference video this year, make it this one. I have already rewatched it and it lost none of its initial impact. It has almost nothing to do with either type hinting or Python in general, but summarizing the exact topic takes away from the watching experience. It's fantastic!

## Powerful tests and reproducible benchmarks with `pytest-cases`

I first learned about this pytest plugin during this talk. I don't know why it isn't part of the base pytest, but if you use `@parametrize` then you need to also start using `@parametrize_with_cases`.

## Python Versions and Dependencies Made Easy

Installing Python can be one of the biggest hurdles to new Pythonistas. Installing a second or third version of Python without confusing yourself or your tools is at least as hard. This is a great introduction to how to do both of these things. As a personal highlight, the author recommends the same tools and processes I have found myself recommending to colleagues; now I can just link to this talk as an extended follow-up to my advice.

## Writing Better Documentation for Developers

An excellent reframing of [The Grand Unified Theory of Documentation](https://diataxis.fr/) from the perspective of a Python project. This theory describes different categories of documentation, why each is necessary, and what each is used for.

## Generators, coroutines, and nanoservices

A wonderful introduction to Python's `yield` statement and how it eventually lead to the addition of `async` and `await`. Even if you have used `yield` before this talk will probably have something in it for you. It starts at the beginning but quickly leads listeners to advanced usage.

## Pattern Matching in Python

An introduction to this new language feature with lots of practical examples.

## Learn CPython by breaking it

Learn about the C code underpinning the most popular Python implementation by changing it. Yes, there are actual C examples, but they are made as accessible as possible and the entire talk has a lot of whimsy about it.

## Thoughts on the Future of Python

A quick yet still rather detailed history of Python's growth from a very early adopter. A lot of areas of technology use Python but it was largely and quickly embraced and extended by numeric and web programmers.

## An Introduction to Kubernetes

If you've ever wondered what's the deal with Kubernetes and how it even work, this is a gentle introduction. The abstractions and terminology that Kubernetes uses are presented in a very approachable way.

## Formalizing a Language

Last, but hopefully not least is my talk. It is an overview of formal grammar and how it works in Python. Python 3.9 actually shipped two different parser implementations. Examples of real code generated by both grammars and how the parser differs in its work.
